Lilliana Robinson: The session yesterday? Any questions.
Lilliana Robinson: Chloe? Did you want to go over scheduling the Pre work packet review meeting the goal, setting meeting.
Chloe Lannert: Yes, absolutely. I've been seeing a lot of pre work packets coming in in the past day or so. Thank you so much. If your Pre work packet is in, go to your to do's there's a to do to book a call with me. My calendar is in the notes there. We're just gonna go over your packets make those goals a little more actionable and see if I can throw anything your way. That'll be helpful.
Chloe Lannert: Just a quick like 25 min or so.
Chloe Lannert: ideally tomorrow or Friday, and if you don't see any times that work for you, message me, and we'll work something out.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome any questions there.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. Well, today, we're going to go through a new workshop. You saw on the calendar. This is the Okrs workshop. Techstars has been working on a few core curriculum workshops where everybody is getting the same
Lilliana Robinson: content. So this is going to be our 1st time giving this workshop. But we've covered okrs and kpis many times in the past. This is just pretty cool that our education team worked on like a specific kind of
Lilliana Robinson: curriculum for you guys around this. So I'll I'm going to go through it with you guys. Feel free to ask questions. It's going to be very helpful, because next week
Lilliana Robinson: you guys are going to be reviewing your Okrs with the program team. So I don't know if you saw in the
Lilliana Robinson: program calendar on base or on Google Calendar. I have added goal setting calls.
Lilliana Robinson: or rather, okay, our setting calls. With the program team. Everybody has an assigned slot. So if you just see those it says like individual slot, see description, you'll be able to read the description and find your company and see your time slot. They're going to be 20 min. So today, we're gonna learn about okrs. We're gonna do some exercises to set your Okrs, basically your objectives for the program. And then you're gonna review it with the team next week, just to make sure it's set in stone.
Lilliana Robinson: And then, after that, in the middle of program, we're gonna reassess with the team kind of see how things are going after we go through mentor madness and everything, and that you'll be able to reset them or change them as you see fit. So we'll be here with you along the way.
Lilliana Robinson: And then also, today, I'm going to give you like a sneak peek of kpis just to start getting you thinking about it because it kind of goes with Okrs. And I want to explain the difference. But we're going to do a whole deep dive into Kpis next week. So for Kpis, we're not going to do many exercises on that today we have a whole lot. You're going to do, Kpis, every single week. And we're going to have a whole session on it next week, so
Lilliana Robinson: we'll just do a little sneak peek of that. And by the end of today you should have pretty clear Okrs set, and that you'll go through with the team next week. So does that sound good
Lilliana Robinson: cool. So let's share
Lilliana Robinson: all right.
Lilliana Robinson: So a lot of you who have worked in business or started a company in the past are probably very familiar with Okrs versus Kpi. So I will open it up to the class. A lot of this workshop. I'd love to hear you guys share the way that you think about it. So first, st
Lilliana Robinson: what are the differences between okrs and kpis? So does anybody know offhandedly, or want to explain the way that you think about it?
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Hey? I can take a stab.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Good morning, everyone. So the way that I used to do it at my old company with okrs. It was much more based on
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: what goals I wanted to set as an individual that
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: that still were in sync with the North Star. But it was more based on the goals that I had in line with the goal for the company. Say, whereas Kpis, I believe, is a lot more.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I don't want to say metric, because both have metrics, but I guess
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: you could argue performance.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think that's exactly right. So one is more like goals, and one is more like performance. I would even say, like measuring performance.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: That's right. That was concise. So thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: So when people think of kpis, they think metrics. And we think of okayrs, we think objectives and goals. That's exactly right. So
Lilliana Robinson: we have this nice graphic here. Okrs are the vision, and the milestones
Lilliana Robinson: and kpis are the measurement
Lilliana Robinson: along the way, or the tracking of progress, which is another really good way to think of it. So here's an example. So an an objective that you could have for your life, or for 2024 could be run faster than 99% of the population.
Lilliana Robinson: The Kr of Okr is the key result. So it's like a pair. So you have an objective but the objective is kind of vague, and it's not quantitative or measurable like, how do you know, when you've reached that you're running faster than 99% of the population. You you don't because you haven't set a key result. So the key result
Lilliana Robinson: is they probably research what 1% of of the population can run a marathon in, and so, being able to run a marathon in under 2.5 h would mean that you reached your objective. So that's why it's okrs. They go together. You make an objective, make a goal, and then you have a key result that tells you when you've reached that goal. And the key result is like quantitative and measurable.
Lilliana Robinson: I think a lot of the mistakes we make. Maybe in our personal lives, maybe in the business is, we'll set goals or objectives without the key result.
Lilliana Robinson: So, like I personally do, that a lot. So making a goal is great, like, I love vision, boarding all the different stuff, for, like New Year's resolutions, all of that, I think a lot of us lack a measurable key result. And so it's like very hard to work toward or create milestones toward a vague objective without that key result. So putting those together is very helpful. So that's okay, ours, and then Kpis are measuring along the way.
Lilliana Robinson: So while you're working toward that key result, you have milestones that you're doing, how do you know if you're working toward that key result at a steady pace. If you're getting the progress you need in order to reach it in the time you've allotted. That's what kpis are for. So
Lilliana Robinson: this Kpi would be like time per mile. So if you want to run a marathon in 2.5 h, the kpi you're measuring is how many minutes it takes you to run a mile and you're trying to get that down. So it looks like the Kpi goal to reach in some set of time. While you're working towards this, Okr would be getting to 5, 43
Lilliana Robinson: so you would be like measuring that over time you could see like a graph. And that's how you can see how you're doing.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's the difference. Are there any questions about the difference here, cause it's kind of key to understand for today.
Lilliana Robinson: cool.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so we're gonna go over Okrs first.st
Lilliana Robinson: So like, I just said, there's objectives and key results. So when you're asking yourself like, what do I want to achieve during techstars? The answer is the objective and then how do we know we're achieving it. It's the key result. Like I just said in the last slide.
Lilliana Robinson: the power of the Okrs is to give you focus, accountability, commitment tracking and stretching. And when they say stretching, there's a lot of using that term here in this presentation, they mean ambition. So you're not able to really shoot really far and have a very ambitious goal without setting an Okr, or else
Lilliana Robinson: our goals tend to be a lot more conservative and less of stretch goals and the whole goal of okrs is to allow you to push yourself.
Lilliana Robinson: That's something that not a lot of people think they. I'll have another slide on this. But a lot of people think that the goal of okrs is to make it something that you will 100% reach. That's actually not the truth. The whole point of okrs is to push you to reach goals that you wouldn't have pushed without setting these objectives, whether you reach every single Okr or not. So stretching is a big part of this. Yeah, Dave.
Dave Scott: Are you sharing slides right now.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes. Can you not see it anymore.
Dave Scott: No.
George Reed - CEO and Founder: Just switch to the other tab. Oh.
Çoruh | CogniScope: I think there's an update. You have to switch tabs on the top.
Lilliana Robinson: Could you guys see the whole time.
Çoruh | CogniScope: I clicked the other tab
Çoruh | CogniScope: rather than staying in the.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, yeah, Zoom has a new update that you guys have to click something to see it.
Dave Scott: And now now I can see it. I don't know. I didn't click anything, but now I can see it.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, let me go back.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Neil says there's a there's a tab at the top to switch to. So did you guys see this picture.
Dave Scott: No.
Filiz Yönyüksel: I just.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So this was what I was going through about running faster than 99% of the population running Marathon 2.5 h. Kpi, 5, 43 min per mile.
Lilliana Robinson: And then
Lilliana Robinson: this is the next slide I was going over. The objective is what's to be achieved. The key result is determining whether we've achieved it. And then this is where I am here. This is where we left off. So superpowers of okrs provide businesses with focus accountability, commitment tracking and stretching. Can everybody see this? Now?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'll go back to this one so that you guys can see the difference. For a second
Lilliana Robinson: gone.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So let's move forward.
Lilliana Robinson: Focus on big bets and accomplish more than you thought was possible. Even if you don't fully attain the stated goal. So I think the sweet spot it'll say, this later is 80%. So you want to achieve 80% of your okrs, that is pretty low. A lot of people who are perfectionists would hate to hear that they're like, what do you mean? I'm going to get a B minus on my okrs. But that's the whole point. If you're at
Lilliana Robinson: actually achieving 90% plus, you're not setting your goals high enough, you want to push yourself and have stretched goals.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. Basically.
Lilliana Robinson: they also allow for the rest of your team to be aligned. So setting Okrs allows your employees your co-founders to all understand why the actions and the work you're doing are going to contribute to moving the needle on specific goals that you've decided as a company. So it's a way to get alignment and engagement and joint buy in as well.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so this is a very important side setting okrs, so as you can see on the left. I'll go over the left side. 1st you start with an objective.
Lilliana Robinson: then you have key results. There could be one or more that measure. Whether or not you've achieved the objective. And then below that there are tasks that drive the progress to get to those key results.
Lilliana Robinson: And then tasks. We're calling milestones. So for the objective, we'll go over objective first.st
Lilliana Robinson: You're gonna identify what you want to accomplish and what will drive the business forward like I said it should be aspirational, but also qualitative. It should inspire you and set a direction. So it's a lot less numbers oriented. It's not going to be qualitative or quantitative. It's going to be inspiring qualitative goals.
Lilliana Robinson: Then we have our key results. Our key results are whether or not the objectives have been met so kind of like in project management yesterday, where we set our to dos to be in an actionable state, where they're either done or they're not, and you can check it or not. It's a true false statement. This is the same thing. The key results should be a true, false
Lilliana Robinson: objective. Can't really be a true false, because it should be a lot more vague. And so it's not exactly measurable whether you've achieved it or not. That's why we have key results, you should be able to look at your key result and say, Yes, I've achieved it or no, I haven't. And that's because it's so quantitative and measurable, very much like in this last slide. The key result run a marathon in 2.5 h.
Lilliana Robinson: That is a yes or no. Can I do it, or can I not? And it's measurable.
Lilliana Robinson: And then, lastly, we have our tasks.
Lilliana Robinson: I I don't have a slide for tasks, but tasks are also called milestones, and those are going to be broken up into bite size actions that are required to drive progress. So we're going to have those spread out over. I think a great period for tech stars is weekly. So if you have a milestone you want to hit every week that drives you toward that key result that's going to be an equation for success.
Lilliana Robinson: Another thing about the key results is that they need to be time based. So you have a set of time where you need to achieve that key result.
Lilliana Robinson: Like I said about the ambitious. Oh, I was even wrong. The sweet spot is 60 to 70%, which is even lower. That honestly makes me kind of anxious, too. But that's the whole point. So if someone consistently fully obtains their objectives. They're not ambitious enough.
Lilliana Robinson: And then low attainment, meaning, like below 60 to 70%, should be viewed as data
Lilliana Robinson: to help refine the next Okr, so meaning maybe it was too ambitious. Maybe there's something wrong or an assumption you're making that you need to reevaluate and then Okrs are not a shared to do list. I think it's important to write that it's much more goal oriented, so it shouldn't be a laundry list of things you want to get done in your business. It should be really thoughtful. Direction driven goals so kind of like, separate that from the to do things that we were doing yesterday.
Lilliana Robinson: So here are some examples. Pay close attention, because you guys are going to go and do okrs on your own. Yeah? Or.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Hey? So about the 60% to 70% thing, as someone who's coming from, you know, an agile develop development background.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Over there. We had this philosophy where this applied for the initial start of your building period. Whatever you're building, or whatever your you know, objective. And being there was
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: we were supposed to buy time
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: like automatically get better at setting the objective so that we are closer to the result, meaning we we would. We were expected to start with an ambitious goal that is not always met, and, you know, get results inside the 60 to 70% band periods. But as time commenced, and as we get more acquainted with the job itself, we were supposed to get better and better at estimating what we could hit.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: So is this 60 to 70%, a consistent overshooting of you know what we're supposed to do, or is it like, are we expected to do better at at this ratio over time.
Lilliana Robinson: So what you're describing is true for Kpis. So I think that this 60 to 70 this is from our tech Stars education team. I think that this is true for the rest of the time you're running your business for goals. We want to dream big. We want to have these big, inspiring goals that are like these overarching objectives for the year and meeting 2, 2 out of 3 of those every year will be a very good sign for what you're describing, where it's like. You want to get better at knowing yourself
Lilliana Robinson: and being able to know what goal you can set and then meet. I think the milestones will be a big one, so like the tasks on the last slide, being able to set those over time and actually achieve them is a big deal.
Lilliana Robinson: and then
Lilliana Robinson: where am I? And then for Kpis, you want to over time, be able to predict what you can actually achieve. So when we have these weekly Kpi meetings, that's exactly what you're talking about. Overshooting, Will. We will want to minimize that over time for your Kpis, I'll get into the difference like for Kpis. But you want to be able to measure those with like a pinpoint accuracy. So when you guys start with your kpis. You're gonna over measure just like or was saying.
Lilliana Robinson: And then over time, being able to exactly predict what you can hit, what you can't hit is going to be a very big positive in your direction when you're going in fundraising. When you have stakeholders. Some of our mentors, favorite companies are people who know their numbers with a fine tooth comb, where they can exactly pinpoint their metrics, and where they're going to be at the end of the quarter within like a hundred dollar range.
Lilliana Robinson: That's an extremely impressive CEO,
Lilliana Robinson: Dave.
Lilliana Robinson: you're on mute.
Dave Scott: What what happens if if you're at that stage where
Dave Scott: you're, you're more of a waterfall and less of us, less of a sprint oriented business, meaning that, like
Dave Scott: your your objective is 6 months away. Like, you're developing, for example, your very 1st Mvp. And you don't expect your very 1st Mvp. To be ready till February.
Dave Scott: How should you be measuring your weekly objectives in that type of scenario.
Lilliana Robinson: I have a slide, for it's actually the next thing. So if your objective is to launch your Mvp. The one key result you could have is to get beta users that you're like preloading who have been giving feedback over the last 3 months. This is like an arbitrary key result. But basically, like.
Lilliana Robinson: if you're gonna have a 6 month time period, that's completely fine, it doesn't need to be these like short sprints. You could have okrs over a year. We're gonna do 3 months, because that's what tech stars is. But launching your Mvp. Could be a year long thing. A key result depends on what you want to achieve for your business. This business clearly cares a lot about how many pre sign ups they have of beta users. It could be anything else. It could be developmental
Lilliana Robinson: key results. Like with your software engineers, it could be like marketing to like, prepare for your launch it. It could be. Whatever is helpful to your business. I don't. I don't really think there's a problem with the timeline being longer. I actually think Okrs lend themselves to like a longer
Lilliana Robinson: several month. Timeline.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that answer your question, Dave? I'm not sure if I answered it correctly.
Dave Scott: Yeah. So so sort of, I think I think what I'm hearing you say is that even though the timeline is, even though there's there's not a lot you could do in the middle of it is it's try to find to try to find a way to break up the the takeaways. So, for example.
Dave Scott: anyway, let me let me think about it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, no, that's a big part of this. So this this little pyramid over here is, it's very important that you spend a lot of time trying to break up these key results into milestones. I know it probably seems like, Oh, if we're going to launch your Mvp. I need to do nothing for like 4 months until I have it. It's built, and then I have like 17 tasks I have to do in the next 2 months. I think it's a challenge to try and break up things so that you're steadily moving toward growth
Lilliana Robinson: versus like these
Lilliana Robinson: imbalanced timelines. I know that it won't always be like exactly where you can break it up into even bite size weeks over the next 6 months, Dave, but I think there are things that you can find to do to spread the workout. I think that's much better than just leaving it to then.
Lilliana Robinson: Your business is different than ever than like every business is different. So I I can work personally with you. If that's something that you're concerned about.
Lilliana Robinson: Annie.
Annie Brown: Yeah, I had a question about the weekly I think you did you mention like weekly key results?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I'm calling them milestones. That's.
Annie Brown: Milestones.
Lilliana Robinson: Calling them and it doesn't have to be weekly. We're going to go over weekly because tech stars is broken up by week while we're in this 3 month period.
Annie Brown: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: That does not have to be the case for you. You could have monthly milestones. They could be every 2 weeks. They could be every couple of days like it's it's up to you.
Annie Brown: Okay, well, I like, I like the idea of the weekly milestones. It's, I guess.
Annie Brown: just trying to think, like, Yeah, how can you break up a
Annie Brown: say like you know, if you're trying to close a sale like, how can you break that up into weekly because I weekly does seem approachable. So yeah, maybe we can discuss that more.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And it depends on what your timeline for your Okr is right, your objective and your key result. So like, the key result needs to be time based. If you're trying to close the deal in 2 weeks, and that's like your whole. That's your key result. For this you like weekly milestones might not be that helpful for that? Right? So like, we're gonna focus on a 3 month. Okr, so like, by the end of program, what do you want to do? And you have 12 to 13 weeks to break that up?
Lilliana Robinson: Fabio.
Fabio Caironi: I think you just you just answered my question, but it was like.
Fabio Caironi: Do okayrs need to be time boxed and appears, appears. The answer is, yes.
Fabio Caironi: yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: The key result needs to be time based. So the objective can be more vague, and then the key result is like, I will be able to run this time for a marathon by 6 months from now.
Lilliana Robinson: because if you don't put a time like space, you're not going to be able to work toward it at like a an even cadence. You want to know what the total time that you give yourself is.
Lilliana Robinson: So this, this says Quarterly. It doesn't have to be. It just needs to be time based in some way. So whatever is good for your business, for that
Lilliana Robinson: I know, like base camp. For example, we'll get into this but basecamp as a company. They reset their objectives every 6 weeks.
Lilliana Robinson: so like that's their timeframe. They take 6 weeks they have a cooldown. And then they set another 6 weeks. And and it's very similar to Okrs, what are we going to focus on?
Lilliana Robinson: These are good questions. So here's some examples. We just went through this one with Dave. I will go through the next one. So for another example, for product supercharge our product use. That is extremely vague. That's the point. You see how that's kind of like inspiring. It's giving a direction. But how do I know if I have reached the objective of supercharging our product, use that that's like
Lilliana Robinson: not a measurable sentence. So we have key results that go with it. So what does that exactly mean? How do I check off? Yes, this objective, this inspiring and vague objective, has been reached. Well, when I reach the key result of increasing daily usage of the product by 30% in 3 months. This is perfect, it's time bound. It's measurable.
Lilliana Robinson: And we can, yes or no, say this is achieved.
Lilliana Robinson: and you can kind of picture in your head already, I'm sure, increasing daily usage of the product by 30%. Well, there are many little milestones you could do, and remember that milestones. I'll give you an example in a second. Milestones are also little experiments. We're going to do a whole different session tomorrow on assumptions and experimentation. But milestones don't have to be things that will 100% work. It's just that you're working toward moving the needle
Lilliana Robinson: so like you could do one thing one week that you think might help increase daily usage of the product. Maybe you start sending push notifications out or something, and it might not work.
Lilliana Robinson: That's completely fine. That's the difference between like milestones and kpis. Milestones are tasks that you're trying to do to to achieve the key result
Lilliana Robinson: for sales. Here are some other examples, nail and validate our Icp.
Lilliana Robinson: The key result for that for this company would be attain 10 committed product pilots with Icps in 3 months, so for them they will feel that they have nailed and validated their Icp. If they can get 10 pilots within that segment in under 3 months.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's a fair assumption.
Lilliana Robinson: Another objective could be converting all users who trial.
Lilliana Robinson: You see how that's a very lofty goal that is extremely ambitious. I I think very few of us would want to say, convert all users who trial. That's a very big, ambitious goal. But that's the point of Okrs. And having set that goal, they will be much closer to achieving 100% than if they didn't set that goal. That's the whole point of being ambitious here. So the key result, to say yes, to converting all users who trial is to increase trial to paid conversion by 15% in 3 months.
Lilliana Robinson: Very straightforward cut and dry, you can say, yes, I've achieved that.
Lilliana Robinson: So Techsart has made this weekly Okrs tracker. This is completely optional. So some of you yesterday were saying that you enjoy spreadsheets. So I personally
Lilliana Robinson: keep things like this like okayrs and goals in a notebook. I like to write it or you guys can type it in Google docs. But if this is your jam, I will put a link in the chat while you guys are in your breakout rooms for you guys to be able to to use this.
Lilliana Robinson: I want to go through the example at the top with you. And as you can see, you're going to have one to 3 Okrs for the program. And then you're going to have. This has 10 milestones. I think you guys could do at least 12, because we're going to have 13 weeks in the last week is Demo Day. So for this company, for example, their objective is to increase paid user signups. So their goal by the end of tech stars, one of their 2 to 3 goals is to increase paid user signups. How do we say? Yes to that?
Lilliana Robinson: Well, they have achieved it. If they're sign. If they have signed up a hundred paid users by May 31st
Lilliana Robinson: and then they give an example. Milestone. So this is really big here to help illustrate the concept. One milestone that they could do in week. One of program is to air A podcast with an invite list of over 200 of their initial customer segment and solicit demo sign ups. Their target result is that, having done that, they will get 10 people to ask for a demo.
Lilliana Robinson: This business reported that only one person asked for a demo, so
Lilliana Robinson: I would call that kind of a failed experiment.
Lilliana Robinson: But then you have these lessons learned asks needs things like that that you can come back to the program and your classmates and our team and say what you learned and what you can do next time. So a milestone is very different from a kpi like they're completely different. This is much more like tasks or projects you're going out to do to move the needle toward your key result, and it might work, and it might not.
Lilliana Robinson: But these are just milestones that you're going to do, and then you can always assess your next milestone. So if their next 3 were about this, podcast they probably need to revisit. So one of the lessons learned, they wrote is revisit, podcast content. So instead of milestone 2 being air, the next episode, they probably need to go back to the drawing board and revisit the content that they're writing because it wasn't very compelling.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, or.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, I, I find this like this exact image. I find this a bit confusing, because the objective says that you know the go, the the objective here is to increase paid user sign ups. And then the key result is, you know it. It's an art like yes or no Boolean type of identifier, which is, if I get 100 paid customers or more by matrix first, st then I would. I would be achieving this objective. However, if I got
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: 50 paid customers by May 31st by by logic, I will. I've also achieved objective yet again, but we would consider that a failure versus
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: consider anything above a hundred positive right? So I I find that the
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: a bit confusing. Is, is this supposed to be like this, or.
Lilliana Robinson: That's it. I I like that. You called that out. I would say it. You have to reflect as a team on what you would find sufficient to say that. So if you are already like, maybe this company already gets like 50 new customers every quarter. So for them to increase paid user sign ups for them to really feel like they achieve that goal. It's 100 like, it's whatever's true for your business. So maybe for a lot of you increasing paid user signups means you've got
Lilliana Robinson: gotten 10 new users by the end of tech stars. It's whatever makes it true for you. A really good way to think of it is going back to the personal example for me, running like maybe not running faster than 99% of the the world. But for me, if I said like, I want to be a faster runner, it would definitely not be running a marathon in under 2.5 h for me. It would be like having a sub 8 min mile.
Lilliana Robinson: and for a lot of people they would shake their head and say, That doesn't mean that you're a faster runner like that's nothing. But for me, that would be achieving that goal. Does that mean make sense.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: I mean, yeah, I I guess the point here is to, you know, set something so high to the point where you know it's like when you're studying for studying for an exam. If you study, for you know a hundred points out of 100,
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: you are at least bound to get 85, or maybe you know 80. But if you go for go over something like, well, I'm gonna do my best, and you know, I'm gonna get the best result I can, then that fluctuates really easily on. You know the intervals in which you can score. So I guess the idea is to be, you know, really daring in the objective side.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: And then, you know, trying to hit that. And then the path along the way is the positive outcome that, you know we're gonna get out of it, although when I look at this again, you know you, you know how you've been, you know, saying, maybe this company already is getting paid user sign ups. Like, if we look at the target result they've set up to, you know. Get a hundred sign a a paid customers by May 31.st But their result is
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: people asked for Demos. Right? So you know, it's like, it's not even close. If if these guys would have gotten one paid user, then that would have been a success. So I'm more, maybe I'm more stuck on this 100 like, how do we designate this properly, so that it both reflects something meaningful while still driving us to do better. Because I think this is absurd, right.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think I think Texters is trying to put forth the notion that you guys should be very ambitious with your goals. I'm okay? Or if you guys are much more interested in setting goals that you know, you can achieve a much higher percentage of the time. That's okay with me. I'm sure it's okay with Neil. So if that's how you guys want to do it, if you want your Okrs to be things that you are much closer to predicting. They're still ambitious, but they're not going to be
Lilliana Robinson: this kind of daring that's okay with me. If that makes you guys more comfortable and more inspired to to work toward the goal. That's completely fine, like the 60 to 70% could be too low for you guys. You could aim for reaching 80 to 90% of your okrs. That doesn't bother me. And the other thing is, it's like an art. So like, that's why we're gonna we're gonna go through here in a second. You guys setting your okrs, and then you're gonna have feedback from a classmate. And then you're gonna get feedback from the program team next week.
Lilliana Robinson: And all of that is because, like just to set these key result and objective, that's because it is that hard to just like pinpoint a good goal and key result. It's like they probably had a lot of thought that went into writing that that 100
Lilliana Robinson: a lot.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Can, put.
Lilliana Robinson: Piece of.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Do? Do we have a time for a really fast call for that.
Lilliana Robinson: For? What?
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, the the thing. Do we have time for a fast follow up, or are we short on time?
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Can I ask something else.
Lilliana Robinson: Question, yeah, that's fine.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah, the the well, I want to point out
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: what what confuses me about this is the way that I see this situation here. It's not that, you know. It's that, you know I'm more comfortable, or we are more comfortable at achieving an 80 to 90 instead of a 60 to 70. But this picture, maybe, is, falls in line in my mind into the scenario, where you know I'm a lightweight boxer, and I set the goal to be the heavyweight champion. So like I'm not even there on the
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: you know. I I'm not even in the division that I'm supposed to be in to hit the goal. But I'm trying to set it, as I'm gonna be the heavyweight division champion while I'm a lightweight boxer. So it's not about the, you know, success rate of us hitting that goal. It's more about, you know, setting something to the point where you're not even in that level to be supposed to be thinking about yet, I guess
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: so I I just wanted to know your idea on. You know how this example falls in line with that.
Lilliana Robinson: Well, like, I said, it's when Techsair's education team wrote this example. I think that they
Lilliana Robinson: have the philosophy. I think this is a different of difference in philosophy. So like, I'm okay with what you are saying, or that's totally fine with me. What textiles is putting forth is clearly this philosophy of like shooting outside of your bucket, and like when you miss at least you land further than you would have before. So that's that's what they're putting forth. It's totally fine with me if it resonates with any of you to be a little bit more like close to the ground. It's just a philosophical difference on.
Dave Scott: Liliana. I wonder if it's a cultural thing cause like in in the Us. It's all about like
Dave Scott: just balls to the wall. Shoot to the moon kind of situation. And so, you know, I'm like, this isn't aggressive enough, like, let's do it like.
Lilliana Robinson: Funny. Yeah.
Dave Scott: I wonder if it's might be a cultural issue.
Lilliana Robinson: It could be, yeah.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: We'll see.
Lilliana Robinson: We're here to help you guys. So that's why we're going to work personally with each of you. And so, whatever works best for your business. I appreciate the challenge, or like this is new content from techstar. So I like the challenge you're putting forth. I do think it's just a philosophical or cultural difference on how you view goal setting, which is completely fine. So it can be individualized for each of you. I like that.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Gonna be really fun being in the Us. I guess.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh.
Lilliana Robinson: you'll see, especially being in the bay.
Lilliana Robinson: You will have fun, but I appreciate your challenge absolutely.
Lilliana Robinson: Dominique.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I wanted to jump in I'll keep it brief. But I had to smile when Dave made his comment, because that was actually going to be my comment, so when Okrs were introduced in my last company, I was based in Zurich and worked in a bank.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: It was met with a lot of confusion and hostility, because it was a very like Kpi driven place. But the eventually, when we all got excited about it. I think. Firstly, it just really helped with collaboration, and also outside of the Us. In my experience, culturally. There isn't this kind of fail
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: fast. And it's celebrated approach which I really admire that you have here, especially in the Bay area. So I think Okrs just really helped with that that across the team, we and there was many different cultures. But we were a lot more open to say, like, Hey, we actually didn't meet this. And that's okay. But we strove and did our best. So
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: I appreciate for some the notion, it's a little bit. Oh, okay, I'm so used to being kpi and metric driven. But yeah, I just wanted to add a word of encouragement and also recognize that culture as well as the international teams. It definitely helped. But it was a little bit uncomfortable@firstst
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: This is so interesting. This is why I love our tech starts program.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah, same time.
Lilliana Robinson: Different perspective.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Like prior to this meeting. I wouldn't have you know like, if somebody asked me which country in the world is the the most balls to the wall. In terms of things like this I would go in a 6 foot second Turkey turkey. But now I'm being introduced to even more crazy bonanza balls to the wall approaches. So I'm I'm actually probably gonna find this very entertaining in the following days. So it's amazing.
Lilliana Robinson: I can't wait for you guys to meet in person, because this is already awesome.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, thank you, Dominique, Dave and Laura, that was a great discussion. So let's move forward. So this is optional. Like I said, this is completely optional. All that we are requiring you guys to do is to set 2 to 3 okrs for program. But this spreadsheet may be helpful to some of you. If this stresses you out, you don't have to look at it anymore. It's just an option.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: you want to be consistent about setting a weekly milestone to achieve your Okrs. Chloe had the great idea of writing your Okrs on a whiteboard in the founder space in the office. So it's actually going to be up there. And as they change, you guys can update it. But you'll have it in front of everybody. So not only are you being held accountable by your classmates. Your classmates can also read it, maybe offer help if they see what direction you guys are tending towards
Lilliana Robinson: trending towards all of those different things. So that was a great idea from Chloe that we'll implement next week.
Lilliana Robinson: So we're going to quickly jump into breakout rooms. I think we'll just do 10 min.
Lilliana Robinson: maybe even 5. Let's do 5 min. Because I still want to get through Kpis, I want you guys to work with your teams
Lilliana Robinson: to identify the top 2 to 3 objectives you aim to achieve by the end of program. So objectives, these lofty, inspirational goals that are qualitative, and then for each objective list the key results that indicate whether the objective has been met and remember the key results are time bound. So in the next 3 months. I'm already giving you the time bound, because we know it's by the end of program. They're going to be specific.
Lilliana Robinson: quantitative, and measurable. And then, if you have extra time, which you might not, because I'm only giving you 5 min, you can start to think about weekly milestones that you can set. The milestones are not going to be like overseen by our team. That's much more on you guys. So
Lilliana Robinson: what's going to be overseen by our team very heavily. And what the Eirs are. Your weekly kpis, your weekly milestones are much more for you guys. So that's going to be something internally that you're thinking about. It's not going to be something that we give you an approval on, or that we check in on unless you need help. So just think about your milestones, the Okrs, the direction and the key result is really what we want to make sure you get right.
Lilliana Robinson: Anything that you do to work toward that is up to you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: So let me set up your breakout rooms.
Lilliana Robinson: Alrighty.
Lilliana Robinson: If you have a co-founder here, and I did not throw them in your room. Just let me know. I think I've got most of you.
Lilliana Robinson: and if you're on your own here, you're just going to be in a room. By yourself. But I'll circulate around
Lilliana Robinson: all right. I will see you guys in 5 min.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so does anyone want to share one of their okrs for program that they have set.
Lilliana Robinson: There are no wrong answers.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): I can share.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you. Monica.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay. Let me.
Lilliana Robinson: Did you write? And then you're gonna pick one? Right?
Lilliana Robinson: I'm interested.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): You said, how many.
Lilliana Robinson: Set for yourself.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Well, I have an overarching objective, and then
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): the then I've broken that out into like 2 subject objectives, and each one has a key result.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): So why don't you.
Lilliana Robinson: One, and then you can share with the group.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay? Sure. So objective is establish an effective and predictable sales and product framework for the company based on Jtbd.
Lilliana Robinson: Hi.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): So I can pick either feature prioritization as a sub objective or sales channel. So whichever one you want.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's do sales.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Okay, so better understand how to identify and find their prospects who are suffering the most pain and need our solution the most and the key result is book a minimum of 6 Demos a month.
Lilliana Robinson: For 3 months. So you need 18 by the end of tech stars.
Monica Roy (Seascape Clinical): Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: got it. That's great, Monica. Thank you. We can. Let's share one more. Does anyone want to share one more? Okay? Are they have set for themselves.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, or.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: Yeah. So 1 1 thing that we've said is, be a company that is generating monthly recurring revenue
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: as a company without any sales. So far. I you know we felt that this was quite ambitious, and the key result is we get, if we get even one multicurring customer, then that is the key result for it.
Uğur Koç | CogniScope: And then, as the weekly milestones we we were talking about, you know the the breakout rooms closed by the time we got there. But we were talking about, you know, maybe setting 10 sales meetings each week and attending 10 sales meetings each week would be a good weekly milestone that we could, you know, check.
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's great. A lot of people who come in pre revenue set that exact goal like, especially B, 2 B, to have one
Lilliana Robinson: monthly recurring client by the end of techstar. So that's perfect.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? So I'm gonna zoom through
Lilliana Robinson: the Kpis because we're gonna we're gonna deep dive into those next week?
Lilliana Robinson: so I'm not too concerned about that. Can you guys see this?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, cool. Since we're short on time? We're also going to have to skip feedback from your fellow peers. But you're going to get feedback from our program team next week, so
Lilliana Robinson: we will review the chosen Okrs that you guys just made make sure that was only 5 min. Make sure you go and meet with your team, or if you're a solo founder, you take time by yourself to refine it before your meeting next week. So everyone's going to have a 20 min meeting with the program team where we're going to kind of like, approve your okrs.
Lilliana Robinson: take time between now and then to refine the 2 to 3 that you've chosen, so that you can like be happy with what you set forth, and we can all be in alignment.
Lilliana Robinson: So now let's zoom through, Kpis. I'm going to just fly through, and then I'll answer. I'll stay after to answer questions. If people have questions. Just so I can get you guys out on time.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is a sneak, peek. We have like a very thorough session next week.
Lilliana Robinson: But just so, you guys are aware, and you don't get kind of confused between the 2 while you're making your Okrs Kpis, are measurements of how your business is performing over time.
Lilliana Robinson: They're not tied to a business activity. So that's the difference. A milestone is like a to do like a milestone is a project you're going to set forth and go and do. Kpis are measurements or metrics. They show how the business is doing
Lilliana Robinson: so like in the running example. The Kpi. Was
Lilliana Robinson: that that? How many minutes
Lilliana Robinson: can I run a mile in? It's not that I'm going to go on 3 runs per week.
Lilliana Robinson: That would be a milestone doing like how many minutes per mile I can run. That's tracking. How well I'm achieving my goal.
Lilliana Robinson: A good Kpi has the following attributes. It provides objective and clear information of the business performance. It tracks and measures factors of that performance.
Lilliana Robinson: And then it. It provides a way to measure it over time. So let's get into it. I wrote this for you guys. You should think of it as tracking the health of the business rather than creating a guide of what to accomplish. So rather than kpis being to dos, they're just tracking health
Lilliana Robinson: very much like health metrics of a human body. That's how you should think of it. It's your living and breathing health. Metrics of your business.
Lilliana Robinson: Kpis can help measure whether you're on track.
Lilliana Robinson: So here are some principles. There are 4. You want your kpis to be actionable over vanity, and we're going to go much more into detail of this next week. But does anyone want to explain what a vanity metric is.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: So I can take it from a marketing perspective. But I think it. It applies so for vanity metrics. It's not just.
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: It's metrics that you? They don't really tell you actually that much. So, for example, with with marketing, it's like eyeballs, or number of views or number of likes, whereas actionable. It's much better to say like, what was actually the result of this. So how many people actually signed up with from a
Dominique (CEO) & William Stone (COO)_Agent Lunar: and the result of an action.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. The difference I'm hearing you say is, they're not actionable. So it it basically is. The reason we use vanity is because it's almost vain. They're vacuous there. It doesn't mean anything, but it looks really nice. So total downloads looks really nice, but that doesn't really tell you anything about the health of your business. So like, we have a lot of people come in trying to get into Texters telling us, oh, we have this. Many like total users.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, how many of them are actively using your product every single day and for a significant amount of time every single day. That's what I want to know
Lilliana Robinson: flow over cumulative. This is very important. So for Kpis, you don't want to do cumulative. You want to do
Lilliana Robinson: daily or weekly. However, you're tracking it. So like weekly active users versus total user sign. Up that way, you can actually track the difference, because total is always going to be going up and up and up. But if the weekly amount goes down from 9 last week to 6 this week, that's something you want to see.
Lilliana Robinson: But the total would just keep going up. If we were tracking that, you would miss that
Lilliana Robinson: piece of data.
Lilliana Robinson: This one is huge, and next week we're going to go much more into this. So I'm just going to preview this now leading over lagging. This is the main issue that our tech Stars founders have in Kpis is they do lagging metrics. So the difference between leading and lagging. So the example here is weekly prospect demos versus weekly revenue. One predicts future performance, and one is reporting on the past efforts. You've done so revenue, as a result of the efforts you did in the past few weeks. It's not telling us
Lilliana Robinson: how well you're going to do in the future weekly prospect. Demos is going to move the needle in the future, so it can predict the health of your company.
Lilliana Robinson: You're so like, a yeah.
Annie Brown: Quick question on that. Then would we want to do leading and lagging measure, both like, I guess, like. But the Kpi would be the leading.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. You want to measure your lagging like you want to measure how much revenue you have. But it wouldn't be a Kpi that you're.
Annie Brown: Okay. Great.
Lilliana Robinson: Meeting. What you can work on. The whole point of the Kpi that you're setting is like
Lilliana Robinson: this is, this is something I can do for my business. Lagging is like we said, it's going to tell what you see as a result.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's very important to know the difference there.
Lilliana Robinson: And then the last thing is causation over correlation. So tomorrow we're going to go through assumptions. But this is a huge part of assumptions
Lilliana Robinson: you can't assume there to be a cause when there might just be a correlation. So if your Kpi is Facebook, spend, you have to know for certain by validating your assumptions that that is a cause for sign ups.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of people will make a Kpi, hoping that it'll move the needle on something when really it's just a correlation. So moving that Kpi up doesn't give them the result that they wanted, because it's not a true causation. So that's an assumption. And we'll go through assumptions tomorrow.
Lilliana Robinson: Here are some examples of Kpis for product
Lilliana Robinson: lifetime, value, conversion rate. Mps, very quantitative sales, weekly sales, meetings so like, or was saying weekly close sales. That's huge. Same with B to C. Fundraising weekly validated investor meetings, weekly decks viewed by investors, weekly warm intros. These are all good examples of Kpis
Lilliana Robinson: when you are. So we're going back to Okrs now. So that was my quick interlude for Kpis. We'll go more into that next week.
Lilliana Robinson: So back to Okrs. When you guys are evaluating with your team over the next week before you meet with our team, ask yourselves the following questions.
Lilliana Robinson: are they are these okrs. We've chosen these 2 to 3. Are they going to drive the business forward? Are they ambitious enough? Are they too hard or too easy are they achievable in the next 3 months?
Lilliana Robinson: So these are all things to think about. Maybe you want something that you might not achieve. That's up to you. I do think something that like is it is possible for you to achieve, but it is rather ambitious, and you may not. That's how I would. That's like the sweet spot, I would say. But ask these to yourself.
Lilliana Robinson: So if we had more time I would have you guys give feedback to one another. I will say, you guys are more than welcome to pair up and message each other in base camp and go over your okrs together. Hop on, zoom together. Our founders do that a whole lot, box each other, get feedback from one another. And if you guys desire, I can also set this up to be much more like institutional
Lilliana Robinson: where you guys can get paired up and and do this asynchronously, since we didn't have time today. So just let me know. But you will get feedback from our program team next week.
Lilliana Robinson: The last thing is for prioritization. So this is just an exercise to take with you before we run out of time.
Lilliana Robinson: Among the 2 to 3 objectives that you want to achieve, that you've set for program which objective will have the most significant impact in the next few weeks. Why is this objective high priority? So you have 2 to 3.
Lilliana Robinson: You want to rank them in priority by chronological so like
Lilliana Robinson: this will give me the highest impact if I do it first.st That doesn't mean you can only work on one objective or cue result at the same time, it just means you need to have a prioritization in mind because you have a limited amount of time, and sometimes you are going to have to choose which actions to take over others. So, having that prioritization already set and agreed upon within your team is, and that can change over time, like maybe in 4 weeks, another one becomes more high priority.
Lilliana Robinson: But that is something to think about. This kind of a thought exercise while you are brainstorming your Okrs.
Lilliana Robinson: And then, once you've achieved that high priority objective, what will it enable us to achieve next?
Lilliana Robinson: That's really the whole principle of prioritization which one unlocks the most for your business. So just think about that.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so this is a link to feedback for everybody who created this presentation. So this was like a whole
Lilliana Robinson: multi-month project. They would love feedback.
Lilliana Robinson: Feel free to fill this out. It's up to you guys if you want to fill it out. But it's something that we're experimenting with as tech stars trying to be better for founders and make even more curriculum. So if you want to give them any feedback definitely scan that otherwise that's the end. So I think we made it. We got you out on time. I will stick around for questions as long as you guys need, because that was like a whirlwind. But they
Lilliana Robinson: thank you guys for your participation. That was an awesome discussion, and we'll go even more into Kpis next week. So just sit tight for that.
Lilliana Robinson: I'll see you guys after lunch for another workshop.
Lilliana Robinson: Bye.